---
layout: post
title:  "Praha"
date:   2014-07-08 22:04:00 +0100
categories: blog posts travel
---

Forgive me if this writing seems frantic - I'm desperate to pen my discovery before it is stolen or forgotten. I've stumbled upon God's own alcoholic design, a veritably providential combination and sequencing of drinks that on consumption leads to numinous awe and inspiration.

Out of prudence I have to take a short aside for explanation: it's been a number of days since I last had the time, energy, and quality of internet connection to check in (this marks the first day since leaving England that I've written here), and now I finally have the chance. We're current staying in Prague, Czech Republic, at a hotel/hostel called Fusion; undoubtedly the best accomodation we've found ourselves in on the trip thus far. Since that last post, I've visited Paris, Amsterdam and Berlin - I'll endeavour to record these stays here, despite a drunkenness brought about by the procedure alluded to in my first paragraph. I think I'll tell it at the end.

The most striking difference between the middle continent and our own that I've noticed so far is one of protocol. In Australia (or as Grace has ere justly put it "the Sesame Street of the world"), I have become accustomed to a conversational handshake that it seems the people here find tiresome. The common "Hello - Hello - How are you? - Good thanks, you? - Yeah good thanks - I'll have a beer please - No problem - Thanks - Thanks" is perceived as exhausting. It's funny how "One beer please" or its native translation comprises the whole conversation in many of the places I've visited, and it's funnier still how irrationally uncomfortable and isolated that makes me feel.

In Paris, I had the small consolation of the ability to speak conversational French (or at least I thought so). On our first night at Hotel Perfect (which proved as expected to have had an overconfident appellation) we threw ourselves into the deep end: instead of visiting a chain-restaurant, or even a busy one, we wandered into the living room of a man who ran a three table establishment out of his home. The food was delicious and the satisfaction of our accomplishments even more so. 

We went on the next day to visit the Louvre. I'm glad to say that French art was redeemed here after my disappointment in London's National Gallery. I should say I lost my phone in Paris. I would have recounted this later in the post, but it is relevant here because I used it to note some of my favourite works from the museum. After an hour spent searching through the various catalogues that the museum website links to, I recompiled my earlier findings: 

The Italian paintings took the fore in my mind; Veronese, Bordon, and of course Da Vinci together winning my preference. I was startled by one French artist in particular however: Anne-Louis Girodet de Roussy-Trioson. The piece Pigmalion et Galatee (not done justice by photographs, so I wouldn't bother) demonstrated a true mastery of light, a skill which I saw in many of her countrymen contemporary to her time. Pierre-Narcisse Guerin created "Le Retour de Marcus Sextus", which I believe to be one of the most amazing paintings in the room, if not the gallery.

After the Louvre, we took a short walk along the river Seine, and some photos. Both tired, we retired for the day. In the next day, we turned to the checklist. Part of the purpose of this trip is to visit the most famous sights, so that when they come up in future conversation we can have a personal idea of the subject (and a high brow, I admit it, I'm sorry). We checked off the Eiffel Tower, which was a wonderful experience. I marvelled more at its engineering than its architecture, though I'm not sure why. In all honesty, the most enthralling aspect of this visit, after the view, was the game of cups and ball that the con-artists on the square before the tower conducted. It was an awful experience to watch a girl squander 200 Euros. She allegedly saw the man swap the cups at the last moment. We hadn't been paying close enough attention to confirm the accusation, and dared not intervene without certainty. It was fascinating how quickly the men (by which I refer to the sleight-of-hand expert, his plants, and his secret bodyguards) dispersed into the crowd when the police were seen on the horizon.

We caught a train to Charles de Gaul and took photos infront of the Arch de Triomphe before heading home to prepare for our departure in the morning.

Note: this will probably be edited later by a more sober me. I'll continue the narrative of Amsterdam, Berlin, and Prague thus far (including the miracle elixir sequence) in the morning.
