---
layout: post
title:  "Words"
date:   2015-01-29 17:30:00 +0800
categories: blog posts philosophy
---

A good friend of mine recently posted [this article](http://everydayfeminism.com/2015/01/reverse-oppression-cant-exist/), which advances an idea that has garnered increasing support of late. It is of course, the idea that *reverse oppression can't exist*. You may have seen it in different forms: "there's no such thing as sexism against men" and "females can't have privilege" are other common instantiations. Some carry more weight than others for reasons that will be elaborated below. Other's less so.

I decided to take the time to make a deliberate reply. I'd been thinking of doing so for some time. What follows is my response.

I see where the author is coming from, and the point being made is fairly cogent when it comes to the word 'oppression'. 'Racism' to a certain extent as well. But I think that the argument is on tenuous ground when talking about 'privileges' and 'sexism'. There comes a point where the historical and sociological nuances asserted to be there really are just invented ones. The big names mentioned are all fairly contemporary prominent critical theorists. Of course their definitions will serve a critical theorist well. But language belongs to the whole population, not a single philosophy. We aren't stripping away connotations that have followed these words since their inception, the semantic coatings have only been recently applied (relatively speaking). Contrived prescriptive lexicography can't generate the force required here, and I'm left asking myself why it's so important that it be used to co-opt the definition of privilege such that some groups can't be said to possess it. Is it such a great blow to have to admit that that isn't the case? The way our language is actually used - when analysed through the (less foggy) lens of descriptive lexicography - just doesn't reflect this growing sentiment. Also, the attempt to establish dictionaries as a source of oppression - due to their supposed prescriptive nature - is very sinister. Most, if not all modern and ancient dictionaries are and were edited and assembled by descriptive lexicographers - the exact opposite of what is being implied. This is doubly true for Merriam-Webster, which despite being one of the more progressive dictionaries ends up as the example for the piece.

Disregarding all of this, we still have a failure to apply the appropriate context. When the person at the water cooler says that they're a realist, they're referring to the everyday term that denotes a person who uses facts and past events, rather than hopeful feelings and wishes, to predict the future. This usage is the one that you'll find in a dictionary. What they're not saying is that they subscribe to the theory which asserts that political state and non-state actors will act only in their own self interests; nor are they saying that universal truths about reality exist independently of anyone thinking about them. Undoubtedly 'realist' refers to those concepts within two specific fields - international relations and philosophical ontology respectively - but to say to the person at that water cooler that she is failing to grasp the nuances of state anarchy theory, or the juxtaposition between realism and liberalism/idealism, or the significant logical difficulties that discarding solipsitic scepticism presents... is to miss the point entirely. 

Critical theory holds no particular significance in this regard. Words are borrowed by schools of thought and then inscribed - but their meaning remains contingent on the context in which they're used. Privilege sometimes really is just "a special advantage, not enjoyed by all."
